And the last video you are able to add a 3D model to the market scene view in this video we're going
to add animations to that 3-D model.
The animation will be the following.
Every time you type on a jellyfish it does a shaky spin.
Declare a function animate node with argument node of type or see a node.
It will not have a return value and just expand the brackets and now call the function inside of handle
top.
So right here self animate node and right here results node and you know what instead of accessing the
node.
This way every time.
Why not just make a node variable equal to results not node.
And then just call node right here and we won't need this geometry any more because this was just for
demonstration purposes.
All right.
So every time we tap on a jellyfish it's going to go to this statement because of the hit test is not
empty.
And every time the estimate it gets called it's going to call animate node.
So an enemy node we need to animate the jellyfish such that it does a shaky spin.
So to do that.
Right.
Less spin is equal to see a basic animation with key path position
lower case.
All right.
So if you hold the option key and click on see a basic animation the first thing you should notice is
that it lets you animate many things.
For example you can animate opacity So the brightness of an object background color as well.
So it animate the change in color.
You can also animate the position the position is what we're going to animate.
So if you notice from the previous demonstration when the jellyfish was doing its Shakey's spin that
was just an animated change in position.
So back to our function right spin the from value is equal to node presentation position.
So presentation represents the current state of the object inside of the scene view.
So basically in this line of code ensures that the animation starts in the current position of the node
and then from the current position right spin to value is equal to A C and vector 3 0 0 and negative
2.
So we start in the From value the current position of the node in from the current position.
Move 2 meters behind these that axis.
So this animation to the node by writing node dot and animation spin for key position.
So run the app press play
click on the jellyfish and notice that it travels in behind the nodes axis.
The animation stops and the jellyfish is back to its previous position.
So back to X code.
What if I told you that the node didn't actually move 2 meters it moved only one meter.
This LCN vector 3 is relative to the world origin.
So we basically told the node start from your current position which is one meter behind the world origin.
And then travel to the position that's two meters behind the world origins axis but the node is already
1 metres behind the world origin.
So to move two metres behind the world origin the node only has to move one metre so to better explain
this what if I put a negative one right here.
So before your assumption would have been that the jellyfish would start at its current position and
then move one meter behind these that axis of the node.
So run the app press play tap on the jellyfish and nothing happens.
So back to X code actually happening is that you start from the current position of the node and then
you're moving one meter behind the axis relative to the world origin not the node but the jellyfish
is already one meter behind the world origin.
So you're just staying in the same spot.
So to fix that instead of putting negative one here put node up presentation position that Zad minus
one.
So this basically says is from the current position of the Zad value of the node.
Then go 1 metres backwards.
So run the up press play tap the jellyfish and it goes one metre behind the axis of the node.
All right.
Now if I keep pressing this I noticed that the jellyfish goes one meter behind that's owns that axis
but then the animation stops and the jellyfish comes back to its initial position very abruptly.
So to have the jellyfish actually animate itself coming back back to X code right spin out or reverses
is equal to true.
So auto reverse makes sure that the node comes back to its initial position such that it's animated.
So right here.
Enemy 1 metre away from these that axis.
But then since this is true it would animate back one meter to its initial position so to better observe
this give the spin a duration of three seconds spin duration is equal to three.
So it should take three seconds for it to go one meter behind its axis and then three seconds for it
to come back to its initial position.
So run the up press play tap the jellyfish and it goes forward three seconds later it comes back and
it takes three seconds for it to come back.
Perfect.
Now back to X code.
Make the duration 0.07 seconds instead of three seconds.
So the animation now should be a lot faster.
So rerun the
press play top the jellyfish and the animation is really quick but its not very pretty to make it look
like what we had in the demonstration back to X code were going to have to study it kind of vibrates
in all directions.
So for the x value have it move 0.2 meters to the left of the current horizontal position of the jellyfish
by writing node presentation position X minus 0.2 and for the y value.
Have it move 0.2 meters below the current vertical position by reading node presentation position misspelled
presentation position y minus 0.2 and do the same thing for those that value that move 0.2 meters away
from the node behind us all right so the node is going to move a small distance 0.2 meters in all directions
of its orientation zero point two to the left point to below and point 2 away.
And since auto reverse is true it's also going to animate itself coming back in all directions.
All right.
So run up press play top on the jelly fish and it goes 0.2 meters in all directions left down and 0.2
meters away from these that Oxus and it comes back in all directions and it all happened so fast so
it looks like it's vibrating very strongly.
Now I want this vibration to repeat five times.
So in X code right spin repeat count is equal to five.
All right.
Run the app press play.
Tap the jellyfish and the animation repeats itself five times with each repeat being 0.07 seconds in
all directions.
All right.
Notice how fast and strong the vibration is.
Now there are two books to deal with.
So in X code let me put the animation to two seconds to observe the bug more clearly.
Run the app so Press play.
If I touch the jelly fish it animates.
But if I touch it as it's animating it does one more animation as it's already animating.
And if I touch it again it just keeps animating over and over.
We need to make sure that the jellyfish doesn't perform any animation when it's already being animated.
So back to X code.
Now the node itself has an array of animation keys since we gave an animation key right here.
So when the node isn't animating the animation keys array for the node is empty.
However when it is animating the animation Keizer it is not empty.
So in handle top right after node if node animation keys that is empty so only one there isn't an animation
currently going on then animate the node so run the app
press play tap the jellyfish no matter how many times I keep pressing on it it doesn't do any more animations
because the animation Keizer right is not empty.
Now I'm just going to wait till this animation is done.
So now that the animation is done the animation Keizer is empty.
So if I press on it it animates again.
All right this works perfectly.
But there is one more bug.
I did say before that there were two bugs.
And the second one is if I keep pressing play it keeps adding jellyfish to that same spot which makes
sense since we're telling it.
So you need to make sure that if there is a jellyfish in the scene don't add another one.
So back in X code in the main storyboard open up the assistant editor and link the player to the Wii
controller with an IB outlet called the outlet plate.
Close the assistant editor and back to the view controller.
When you press the play button have it add a jellyfish but as soon as it adds the first jelly fish then
the save will be playable and by writing self up play that is enabled is equal to false and then restore
the animations to how we had them before.
So put this back as 0.07 seconds and everything in here looks fine.
Run the app press play.
It adds a jellyfish and the play button is disabled so you can't add any more jellyfish no matter how
many times you touch it.
Tap the jellyfish and everything works fine.
All right so now we have a 3D model and we learned how to animate a 3D model in the next video.
We're going to finish our game by adding rules and timers.